---
title: "Finding the right angle"
categories: assignments
breadcrumbs: true
paginator: true
categories: 
- posts
tags:
- IT-architecture
- Problem solving
share: true
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  overlay_image: "https://demo.gethugothemes.com/meghna/site/images/backgrounds/hero-area.jpg"
excerpt: 'Addressing a problem can be tricky'
---

Finding the right angle to address a problem can be tricky. It's important to understand the context and identify the boundaries of what needs to be done. That's why it's essential to "zoom in and out" in order to get a better perspective.

When you zoom in, you focus on a particular aspect of the problem and its immediate environment. You can call this setting a context - understanding what needs to be done and how it fits within the wider context. You may need this level of detail if you're going for a specific solution or if you want to hone in on specific requirements for implementation or deployment. 

Once that context has been established, it helps immensely if we zoom out again and look at how everything works together as part of a larger system. It can help us identify potential sources of friction between elements, dependencies, opportunities for optimization, and so forth. This allows us create more effective solutions that are designed with their environment taken into account from day one instead of retrofitting after implementation has already begun. 

Zooming in and out provides an invaluable approach when trying to find solutions for complex problems; it gives us an overall view as well as granular details which allow us tailor our solutions more precisely towards our goals - ultimately resulting in more successful outcomes!
