---
title: "Optimize for speed and Deploy with confidence"
categories: posts
breadcrumbs: true
paginator: true
categories: 
- posts
tags:
- DevOps
- Performance Metrics
- Speed
share: true
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  overlay_image: "https://demo.gethugothemes.com/meghna/site/images/backgrounds/hero-area.jpg"
excerpt: 'Use performance metrics to help software delivery teams identify areas of improvement'
---

Performance metrics are essential for software delivery teams to understand how their processes are functioning and where they can improve. Without performance metrics, it's difficult to measure the effectiveness of any process, let alone software delivery.

The most important performance metrics for software delivery include deployment frequency, lead time for changes, change failure rate, and time to restore service.

Deployment frequency is how often an organization can successfully release software to production. A higher deployment frequency indicates a smoother process for releasing new versions, resulting in faster time to market.

Lead time for changes measures the amount of time it takes a commit to get into production. This metric helps to identify any bottlenecks in the process that might be delaying the release of new features.

Change failure rate is the percentage of deployments that cause a failure in production. A higher failure rate can be indicative of a lack of testing or a poor process for pushing updates.

Finally, time to restore service is how long it takes an organization to recover from a failure in production. This metric is especially important for companies with critical systems that must remain operational at all times.

These performance metrics can help software delivery teams identify areas of improvement and optimize their process for faster and more reliable releases. By tracking these metrics, teams can ensure they are consistently delivering high-quality software to their customers.

I think Google have a nice way to help you make a quick self assessment of your DevOps capabilities.

Take a look at it here: https://www.devops-research.com/quickcheck.html

And read the 2022 State of DevOps Report, https://cloud.google.com/devops/state-of-devops/ and how to organize high performance teams https://cloud.google.com/devops
